# Secondary authentication
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Secondary authentication refers to the various methods of two-factor
authentication (2FA) available to users of the search and submit services.

## SMS

SMS-based 2FA works by generating a random six digit number for a user which is
then sent by SMS to their verified mobile number.

The user can set up this 2FA method either at sign up or any time after signing
in. They need to enter their mobile number and verify it by correctly entering
a random six digit number which is sent to that mobile number.

## App (TOTP)

App-based 2FA works by generating a random secret string for a user which is
presented to them along with a QR code rendition.

The user can set up this 2FA method either at sign up or any time after signing
in. They scan the QR code with their TOTP app or enter the secret string manually.
They verify this method by correctly entering the current code generated by their
TOTP app.

## Recovery code

Recovery codes are available to any user who has set up at least one 2FA method.
They are generated when the user signs up, or for existing users, when they first
visit the recovery codes page in "my account".

Ten recovery codes of 8 digits each are presented to the user and do not change.
The user is prompted to download and/or print these codes and keep them safe in
case their usual 2FA method is not available for any reason.

The user can use each recovery code once to sign in, bypassing their usual 2FA
method.

Once all recovery codes have been used, the user can no longer sign in using a
recovery code and must contact support to receive new ones.
